Background

In the Troitsky competition, there are bonus points for being under the legal height limit, with more points are awarded
for lower points.  In addition to the fact that an I beam bridge won in 2020, an unofficial category of I beam bridges
has arisen. This program in its current state is meant to be used in preliminary design and to be further developed by
the BCIT team for detailed design. Connection design between web and flanges, bridge splices, bearing stiffeners, and
buckling braces are simply accounted for by reducing the design weight of the bridge by 1000g.


Libraries Needed

This program uses scipy, numpy, and tabulate libraries


User Inputs

Material engineering properties are modified in the engineeringProps.py file.

Bridge geometry is modified in the geometry.py file. Note: flange thicknesses are user defined. Solving the flange
thicknesses analytically by solving flange buckling equations is likely unnecessary. Flange thicknesses should be
adjusted to meet reasonable length to thickness ratios, maximum bridge width limits, and manufacturing requirements.

The number of sections that define the beam can also be modified in geometry.py file.


Overview of Method

Solving the geometry of the beam done by the Beam class. This outlines how it works.

1. For a given load, solve for the shear force applied.
2. Using the shear force and beam height limit, solve for the web thickness.
3. Use the web properties to solve where the web cannot resist the applied bending. This is where the flanges start.
Note: due to how the web/flange connection is expected to be designed, the web extends from the bottom of the beam to
the top of the beam.
4. Discretize the beam by defining sections between the start of the flange and the midpoint
5. Solve the flange widths at these sections to resist the bending moment at the section
Note: this could be improved by optimizing the flange widths to minimize the area while matching the stresses to the
material strengths. It is currently unknown how unoptimal the current result is.
6. Find the mass of the resulting beam.
7. Use a root finding function on the Beam class to make the total mass of the bridge 5kg. Output the corresponding
geometry and load.
